YOU MUST BECOME AN ALGORITHMIC PROBLEM - AI has dominated recent headlines. Books and magazine articles abound describing the transformational impact artificial intelligence will have on work and society. Few of these publications, however, have delved deeply into how algorithms and AI are affecting citizens in democratic societies.  This book centers a core dilemma: how can society benefit from AI without destroying democracy? The logic of AI models and the needs of both state and market provide strong incentives to see individual political subjects as algorithmic problems that need to be solved. Democratic health, however, requires that large numbers of its citizens defy algorithmic classification, hence remain as outliers. In this book, I challenge readers to consider a new framework for thinking about how this algorithmic age impacts our political selves. I build from a foundational premise: that algorithms are designed to make us predictable. Explaining to readers why this is true for a number of reasons, I detail how and why predictability increases the effectiveness of marketing.  Predictable subjects are more likely to be effectively targeted by personalized marketing appeals. If you do not behave in a predictable way, you’re not a very good product/resource to be packaged to advertisers. While much of the promised effectiveness of online advertising is more hype than reality, the ability to fine-tune messages based on very narrow user microprofiles is improving on a daily basis.
